# 3620_Final_Project
For my final project I would like to create a Django web application that I can use to track my expenses each month. I currently utilize google forms and google sheets to track my monthly expenses. My google form requires me to select a date, category, and amount for each expense. I also have the option to add a note that tells what the expense is in more detail. When I submit the form, the data is automatically transferred to my google sheet where I have formulas to filter the expenses based on the date and the category of the expense. On the main sheet I have a full view of the totals of each month in each category as well as a view of the total expense for each month. I also have a separate sheet for each of the months that shows the totals of the expense in each month. The form allows me to input my income as well. In each of the months I have it shows my income beside my expenses and next to this it calculates whether I have spent more or less than what I have made. I have conditional formatting in this cell to change the color depending on if I am negative or positive for the month. 
I want to create this web app that will centralize the way I track my expenses. As well I want the design to be more intuitive and easier to use. My plan is to transfer the way I track my expenses now directly into a Django web application. I will have a starting screen be a screen that shows the totals for the current month as well as the totals for the year. I want to add a button that with take me to a page that has a form that I can add expenses and income. 
Front End
The front end will have a starting page that will display the current month’s totals and below it will have a table with all the expenses. Next to the months totals it will have the totals for the year. As well, I want to try and make a pie chart that depicts the expenses to see visually see what I am spending the most money on. This page will also include a button to go to a page that will allow me to add a new expense. On this page there will be a form that will allow me to choose the date, choose from a list of categories, enter the amount of the expense, and an option for making a note. When this form is submitted, the page will redirect to the current month. There will be an option to save the current month and the years data to a pdf using htmltopdf. 
Back End
On the back end I will utilize database models to save the expenses I will input. I plan to have a model that includes the date, the category chosen, the amount, and the note if there is one. The backend code will also have the views and the templates that will display the data to the page and handle the POST of the inputted expenses that will be added into the database model. The templates will be able to access the database models to display the data for each of the categories. The backend code will also do the calculations of adding up each of the categories and the totals for all of the expenses. The backend will also make it possible to save the data to a pdf. I will also implement the pie chart or bar graph code into the backend to make it easy to display the data visually on the page. 
I will utilize templates, database models, views, forms, pagination, and virtual environment, and search functionality. Using these topics we have covered in this class will help me make the most of my Django web application. And allow me to utilize this application in my everyday life. 
